Instructions v1.2 Beta
by Jeff Temple
4 May 2008
Send comments & complaints to jtemple@fnal.gov


This GUI is designed to let shifters look for runs recently stored 
in DBS, and to run the prompt DQM analysis on those runs.  (It's been
adapted from a GUI used for HCAL DQM.)
Below is a simple guide for running the beta version of this GUI.

Quick start:
    1)  Click on the "DQM options" menu
    2)  Choose "Change DQM settings".  A new window will appear.
    3)  In the third row of the new window, enter the directory
        where you wish your output to appear.  (Be sure to press "Enter"
        after typing in the new name!)
    4)  Close the new window.  If you wish, you may save your new value as
        a default.  (This will save you the trouble of re-entering the 
        directory name the next time you open the GUI.)
    5)  Press the "Auto-Update Disabled!!" button on the right side of the
        GUI.  This will enable auto-checking of DBS, and auto-running of 
        DQM.
    6)  Sit back and wait for new files to appear in your specified save 
        directory!
    




More detailed instructions:

To find runs in DBS:
   1)  Set the range of runs you want in the white windows in the GUI.
       (These are the windows that say 
        "Search over XX runs, starting with run # YYYYY").
       If you want to look at runs in the range 30000-35000, you would 
       change the windows to read:
       "Search over 5000 runs, starting with run # 30000".

   2)  Press the red "Check DBS for runs" button on the right of the GUI.
       The button will become disabled, and the DBS "Current Status" line
       will change.  

   3)  When the check has finished, the DBS status line will change again.
       Hopefully, it will say something like "Successfully grabbed runs."


To check which runs have been found:
   1)  Click on the "Status" menu at the top of the GUI

   2)  Click on "Show Run Status".
       This will show all the runs that the GUI has found from DBS.
       This list is *not* the same as all of the runs that are in DBS!
       The GUI searches for files of a specific type (they must be
       root files, with names of the form */Global*/A/*RAW/*.root).
       The GUI also does not know about runs unless you have told it to
       search for them.

   3)  The status window will show you a list of runs, and whether or not
       they've been processed by DQM.         
       

To run DQM on newly-found runs:
   1)  Press the "Run the HCAL DQM" button on the lower right of the GUI.

   2)  The button will become disabled, and the DQM "Current Status" should
       change.

   3)  Running DQM can take a long time!  You can click on the 
       Status/Show Run Status menu periodically to see which runs have 
       completed.


That's it!  If you periodically check for runs, and check that HCAL DQM 
has run on them, then you should always have up-to-date DQM information!

(We hope to have this GUI running automatically later during CRUZET, 
so that you don't even need to press the buttons.)




Here are a few more advanced instructions:

* To change the DBS search parameters:
  1)  Go to DBS options->Change DBS Settings.
  2)  Alter the needed parameters, and press "Enter" after each change.
      (You may return to the default values with the "Restore default values"
       button.)
  3)  Don't change these values unless you know what you are doing!


* To change the DQM parameters:
  1)  Go to DQM options -> Change DQM Settings
  2)  Change the needed parameters, and press "Enter" after each change.


* More features may be coming soon!
